4.009 Senate districts
======================

(1)  First senate district. The combination of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd assembly districts constitutes the first senate district.
(2) Second senate district. The combination of the 4th, 5th, and 6th assembly districts constitutes the 2nd senate district.
(3) Third senate district. The combination of the 7th, 8th, and 9th assembly districts constitutes the 3rd senate district.
(4) Fourth senate district. The combination of the 10th, 11th, and 12th assembly districts constitutes the 4th senate district.
(5) Fifth senate district. The combination of the 13th, 14th, and 15th assembly districts constitutes the 5th senate district.
(6) Sixth senate district. The combination of the 16th, 17th, and 18th assembly districts constitutes the 6th senate district.
(7) Seventh senate district. The combination of the 19th, 20th, and 21st assembly districts constitutes the 7th senate district.
(8) Eighth senate district. The combination of the 22nd, 23rd, and 24th assembly districts constitutes the 8th senate district.
(9) Ninth senate district. The combination of the 25th, 26th, and 27th assembly districts constitutes the 9th senate district.
(10) Tenth senate district. The combination of the 28th, 29th, and 30th assembly districts constitutes the 10th senate district.
(11) Eleventh senate district. The combination of the 31st, 32nd, and 33rd assembly districts constitutes the 11th senate district.
(12) Twelfth senate district. The combination of the 34th, 35th, and 36th assembly districts constitutes the 12th senate district.
(13) Thirteenth senate district. The combination of the 37th, 38th, and 39th assembly districts constitutes the 13th senate district.
(14) Fourteenth senate district. The combination of the 40th, 41st, and 42nd assembly districts constitutes the 14th senate district.
(15) Fifteenth senate district. The combination of the 43rd, 44th, and 45th assembly districts constitutes the 15th senate district.
(16) Sixteenth senate district. The combination of the 46th, 47th, and 48th assembly districts constitutes the 16th senate district.
(17) Seventeenth senate district. The combination of the 49th, 50th, and 51st assembly districts constitutes the 17th senate district.
(18) Eighteenth senate district. The combination of the 52nd, 53rd, and 54th assembly districts constitutes the 18th senate district.
(19) Nineteenth senate district. The combination of the 55th, 56th, and 57th assembly districts constitutes the 19th senate district.
(20) Twentieth senate district. The combination of the 58th, 59th, and 60th assembly districts constitutes the 20th senate district.
(21) Twenty-first senate district. The combination of the 61st, 62nd, and 63rd assembly districts constitutes the 21st senate district.
(22) Twenty-second senate district. The combination of the 64th, 65th, and 66th assembly districts constitutes the 22nd senate district.
(23) Twenty-third senate district. The combination of the 67th, 68th, and 69th assembly districts constitutes the 23rd senate district.
(24) Twenty-fourth senate district. The combination of the 70th, 71st, and 72nd assembly districts constitutes the 24th senate district.
(25) Twenty-fifth senate district. The combination of the 73rd, 74th, and 75th assembly districts constitutes the 25th senate district.
(26) Twenty-sixth senate district. The combination of the 76th, 77th, and 78th assembly districts constitutes the 26th senate district.
(27) Twenty-seventh senate district. The combination of the 79th, 80th, and 81st assembly districts constitutes the 27th senate district.
(28) Twenty-eighth senate district. The combination of the 82nd, 83rd, and 84th assembly districts constitutes the 28th senate district.
(29) Twenty-ninth senate district. The combination of the 85th, 86th, and 87th assembly districts constitutes the 29th senate district.
(30) Thirtieth senate district. The combination of the 88th, 89th, and 90th assembly districts constitutes the 30th senate district.
(31) Thirty-first senate district. The combination of the 91st, 92nd, and 93rd assembly districts constitutes the 31st senate district.
(32) Thirty-second senate district. The combination of the 94th, 95th, and 96th assembly districts constitutes the 32nd senate district.
(33) Thirty-third senate district. The combination of the 97th, 98th, and 99th assembly districts constitutes the 33rd senate district.

+	History: 2011 a. 43.