34.01 Definitions
=================

In this chapter:
1.	"Governing board" means the investment board in the case of the state, the housing and economic development authority if the authority elects to be bound by all or part of this chapter under s. 234.32 (2), the county board or committee designated by the county board to designate public depositories in the case of a county, the city council in the case of a city, the village board in the case of a village, the town board in the case of a town, the school board in the case of a school district, the board of control in the case of a cooperative educational service agency, the clerk of court in the case of any court in this state, and any other commission, committee, board or officer of any governmental subdivision of the state not mentioned in this subsection.
2.	"Loss" means any of the following:
	+	Any loss of public moneys, which have been deposited in a designated public depository in accordance with this chapter, resulting from the failure of any public depository to repay to any public depositor the full amount of its deposit because the office of credit unions, administrator of federal credit unions, U.S. comptroller of the currency, federal home loan bank board, U.S. office of thrift supervision, federal deposit insurance corporation, resolution trust corporation, or division of banking has taken possession of the public depository or because the public depository has, with the consent and approval of the office of credit unions, administrator of federal credit unions, U.S. office of thrift supervision, federal deposit insurance corporation, resolution trust corporation, or division of banking, adopted a stabilization and readjustment plan or has sold a part or all of its assets to another credit union, bank, savings bank, or savings and loan association which has agreed to pay a part or all of the deposit liability on a deferred payment basis or because the depository is prevented from paying out old deposits because of rules of the office of credit unions, administrator of federal credit unions, U.S. comptroller of the currency, federal home loan bank board, U.S. office of thrift supervision, federal deposit insurance corporation, resolution trust corporation, or division of banking.
	+	With respect to public moneys deposited in the local government pooled-investment fund, in addition to a loss as described in par. (a), the public depositor's proportionate share of any loss of principal invested or reinvested by the investment board under s. 25.50 (6).
3.	"Public deposit" means public moneys deposited by a public depositor in a public depository, including private moneys held in trust by a public officer.
4.	"Public depositor" means the state or any county, city, village, town, drainage district, power district, school district, cooperative educational service agency, sewer district, or any commission, committee, board or officer of any governmental subdivision of the state or any court of this state, a corporation organized under s. 39.33 or the housing and economic development authority if the authority elects to be bound by all or part of this chapter under s. 234.32 (2), which deposits any moneys in a public depository.
5.	"Public depository" means a federal or state credit union, federal or state savings and loan association, state bank, savings and trust company, federal or state savings bank, or national bank in this state which receives or holds any public deposits or the local government pooled-investment fund.
6.	"Public moneys" means all moneys coming into the hands of the treasurer of a public depositor by virtue of his or her office without regard to the ownership of the moneys.
7.	"Treasurer" means any duly elected, appointed or acting official or employee of a public depositor whose duties require that he or she receive and account for public moneys.

+	History: 1975 c. 164, 180, 422; 1977 c. 225, 320, 449; 1979 c. 221, 301, 318, 355; 1981 c. 390 s. 252; 1983 a. 81 s. 11; 1983 a. 83 s. 20; 1983 a. 189, 368, 538; 1985 a. 25; 1987 a. 399; 1991 a. 221; 1995 a. 27; 1999 a. 9; 2003 a. 33.
+	Legislative Council Note, 1985: Sub. (2) is amended to remove the reference to a required payment made into the state deposit guarantee fund, since the fund is prospectively abolished in this bill.
+	Sub. (3) is amended in order to shorten the definition by making use of other defined terms in the section.
+	Sub. (5) is amended to specifically include "federal or state" credit unions and "federal or state" savings and loan associations as public depositories.
+	Sub. (6) is amended to shorten the definition by making use of other defined terms in the section. In making use of the term "public depositor", this subsection specifically includes the treasurer of a corporation organized under s. 39.33. This corporation, created by the higher educational aids board to provide for a guaranteed student loan program, is included in the definition of "public depositor" in sub. (4), but is not listed in current sub. (6).
+	Sub. (7) is amended to shorten the definition by making use of other defined terms in the section. In making use of the term "public depositor", this subsection specifically includes the treasurer of a corporation organized under s. 39.33. This corporation, created by the higher educational aids board to provide for a guaranteed student loan program, is included in the definition of "public depositor" in sub. (4), but is not listed in current sub. (7). [85 Act 25]