1.13 Land use planning activities
=================================

(1) In this section:
(a) "Local governmental unit" has the meaning given in s. 1.12 (1) (a).
(b) "State agency" has the meaning given in s. 1.12 (1) (b).
(2) Each state agency, where applicable and consistent with other laws, is encouraged to design its programs, policies, infrastructure and investments of the agency to reflect a balance between the mission of the agency and the following local, comprehensive planning goals:
(a) Promotion of the redevelopment of lands with existing infrastructure and public services and the maintenance and rehabilitation of existing residential, commercial and industrial structures.
(b) Encouragement of neighborhood designs that support a range of transportation choices.
(c) Protection of natural areas, including wetlands, wildlife habitats, lakes, woodlands, open spaces and groundwater resources.
(d) Protection of economically productive areas, including farmland and forests.
(e) Encouragement of land uses, densities and regulations that promote efficient development patterns and relatively low municipal, state governmental and utility costs.
(f) Preservation of cultural, historic and archaeological sites.
(g) Encouragement of coordination and cooperation among nearby units of government.
(h) Building of community identity by revitalizing main streets and enforcing design standards.
(i) Providing an adequate supply of affordable housing for individuals of all income levels throughout each community.
(j) Providing adequate infrastructure and public services and an adequate supply of developable land to meet existing and future market demand for residential, commercial and industrial uses.
(k) Promoting the expansion or stabilization of the current economic base and the creation of a range of employment opportunities at the state, regional and local levels.
(L) Balancing individual property rights with community interests and goals.
(m) Planning and development of land uses that create or preserve varied and unique urban and rural communities.
(n) Providing an integrated, efficient and economical transportation system that affords mobility, convenience and safety and that meets the needs of all citizens, including transit-dependent and disabled citizens.
(3) Consistently with other laws, each state agency, whenever it administers a law under which a local governmental unit prepares a plan, is encouraged to design its planning requirements in a manner that makes it practical for local governmental units to incorporate these plans into local comprehensive plans prepared under s. 66.1001.
History: 1999 a. 9, 148; 2001 a. 30.
